Three men who previously served in
the military are set to speak publicly
about what they saw in the sky
and heard behind closed doors.
All right.
One more - guy in the white tan suit.
There is David Grusch,
who's a former intelligence official.
He has knowledge of a covert government
program to recover
crashed alien spacecraft.
Do you solemnly swear or affirm
that the testimony you are about to
give is the truth,
the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth,
so help you God?
That is David Grusch,
a former Afghanistan
combat veteran and 14 year
high ranking intelligence officer.
In 2019, he was tasked by the Pentagon
to investigate UFOs
as part of the Unidentified
Anomalous Phenomena Task Force.
I had no interest in,
you know, UFOs or whatever,
but I thought it'd be kind
of an interesting thing
to see what was going on.
During his investigation, Grusch
started to uncover a program
that was being systematically hidden
from him,
the American public
and our elected representatives.
We're done with the cover up
and we're going to get
to the bottom of it dadgum it.
A program
whose mandate was to find
and retrieve crashed UFOs
and attempt to rebuild them
into functional vehicles
that humans can fly.
And I'm sitting there
and I'm like, okay, well,
this is a thing.
Thanks to new UFO
whistleblower protections,
Grusch gave comprehensive documentation
about these programs to the inspector
general in the summer of 22.
He had brought
people on the secret
UFO programs directly
to meet the inspector
general's team
and had even given the staff
the names of the aerospace
companies involved in these programs
and the locations
where the UFOs
were ostensibly being kept.
I filed my complaint.
I told them who to interview.
And, you know,
they ultimately were like, Holy shit,
this is credible.
In June of 23,
he outed himself to the public,
giving News Nation
and The Debrief exclusive interviews.
Do we have bodies?
Do we have species?
So naturally,
when you recover something
that's either landed or crashed,
sometimes you encounter dead pilots.
Then in late
July, he testified before
Congress in Washington, D.C.
The hearing was a wild moment
in history.
Yup, there
I am with Ammar Kandil
from the second
best YouTube channel online,
Yes Theory.
If you want instant inspiration
and exposure to untold human stories
across the world,
throw them a subscription
and stay tuned
for their UFO documentary,
including Dave, coming soon.
I've known Dave for about two years
when we were introduced
by a mutual friend
who had served on the air
Force with him
and through many a phone call,
he's put up with my wild speculations
on the truth behind UFOs.
Sometimes I'm
like hanging up the phone,
you call me, and I'm like,
I don't know about this guy.
I think he’s really losing his grip.
During the lead up to the hearing
and in its aftermath,
we were granted exclusive access.
We actually held the first
and only public
hearing with Dave and 20 young
Yes Theory fans in Washington, DC,
after the congressional hearings.
We traveled with him,
hiked the mountains of Colorado,
got covered in dust on ATVs,
hung out with some llamas,
What’s the name of the llama?
Playboy. Playboy.
And of course, had a long
form conversation.
We discussed the history of covert
UFO research
programs, their connection
with Robert Oppenheimer
and the Manhattan Project,
why presidents and elected
officials may have been shielded
from the UFO secrets in the past.
And, of course, his best theories
as to how these UFOs fly,
who their occupants are
and why they're here.
While you'll see a candid side of Dave
that you've never seen before, he's
still somewhat limited
in what he can and can't say.
I don't wanna get into specifics.
I don't want to get into that.
I can't really can’t
go really beyond that.
can't make a personal-
if anything slips that
wasn't pre-approved
by the Defense Department,
he could literally go to jail.
But there's a lot of pretty insane
new stuff he does say.
The Manhattan Project,
they were kind of the first blue book.
Do you think Bob Lazar is full of shit?
Have we made any agreements
with any of the aliens?
Do you have a sense of the species?
And if you combine our opensource
research with his revelations,
you can actually piece together
a sort of coherent picture
of what's going on
with UFOs and human attempts
to reverse engineer them.
Buckle up, I guess.
So, without further ado,
this is the atom
bomb of American Alchemy episodes.
It's been marinating for months
and it was executed with the Manhattan
Project style secrecy.
All of the crew members
weren't allowed to disclose
what they were working on.
But I'm so excited
that it's finally dropping
and you are here to see it.
So get your radiation goggles on.
Hit subscribe
and brace yourselves
for a brain dump of everything
you've ever wanted to know
about UFOs
from today's American Alchemist:
David Grusch.
Hey, man.
Hey.
Crazy day.
Yeah.
So, what happened yesterday?
I didn't read the news.
My name is David Charles Grusch.
I was an intelligence officer
for 14 years.
I was my agency's co-lead
in unidentified
anomalous phenomena and trans-medium
object analysis,
as well
as reporting to the UAP
Task Force, UAPTF, and eventually,
once it was established,
the all domain
Anomaly Resolution Office, ARO.
Why were you placed on the UAPTF?
And UAPTF
for the people that don't now
is Unidentified
Anomalous Phenomenon Task Force.
The UAP
task force
director funneled the request
through the ops center like, Hey,
is there any intel officer for your,
you know,
your agency would be willing to
be a representative on the task force
to kind of
fill that void with expertise
from NRO and the Air Force.
And my boss
got the email, forwarded it to me,
and he's like, do you want to do this?
And I thought, well, I'm a reservist.
Like,
I can put it on my performance report
that I worked on like a task force.
I thought it'd be kind of
an interesting thing
to see what was going on.
When did you start to realize
that you weren't just kind of looking
at, you know,
anomalous phenomena
and trying to classify it in the air,
But you were being sort
of systematically lied
to about an internal reverse
engineering program
within the government. Yeah. I mean,
certainly going into it, I
thought it was going to be, you know,
air trash, some prosaic
natural phenomenon.
I remember sort of interviewing
some military members
that saw some really profound
stuff like, you know, large,
you know, triangular crafts,
you know, football field size that,
you know, hovered over them.
And I was like, whoa,
you know,
And these people were very serious,
very upset
to actually divulge that,
you know, a personal thing.
You know, it's nothing classified.
It was a personal observation
they had on on a drive to work.
And then,
you know, one thing led to another.
I had, you know,
certain colleagues of mine
that I’d known for years
approached me, you know,
close the door in my office
and was like, look,
you need to know about some other stuff
you guys are not getting access to,
you know, and,
you know, kind of led down this -
Why do you think they talked?
Why do you think they spoke to you?
Yeah, I think a lot of these guys were
you know, they've kept the
secret for so many years. They knew me.
They knew what I was looking into.
You know,
we reported to the
deputy secretary of defense
and Congress at the time
with the UAP task force.
And
and I think they wanted some change.
At least that’s
what they espoused to me is
why do you think they want to change?
You know, they
they felt that
they were kind of limited
in bringing people in.
The support they were getting.
Their treatment was harsh sometimes,
and I guess they weren't
really feeling the love anymore.
What's the first moment where you saw
irrefutable evidence
that what you're dealing with is, is
truth is reality?
I mean, there were certain
military cases.
You know,
we were analyzing that I,
I just really couldn't
explain in a prosaic fashion.
What can you tell me about these craft?
Why do you know it's exotic?
Based on the very specific properties
that I was briefed on,
you know, isotopic ratios
that would have to be engineered
for it to be
at those levels.
And then, of
course, you know,
read some, you know,
intel reports
that were provided to me
in that regard.
And, you know,
I took that
and I
went to the agencies
that wrote those reports
and asked for access.
And when I
when when they deny you access
then you know it's a thing.
So it's it's
and that's what happened to me time
after time over a couple of years.
So like,
there wasn't a singular moment
where you're like,
just open the folder and you go,
What the fuck is that?
It was kind of like
a slow burn culmination
as I was processing it,
you know,
allowing my world
view to open and yeah,
I don't know
if there was a singular moment.
I think it was, you know,
some of the really,
really trusted
high level people we talked to
when they, you know,
stared us straight in the face
very seriously.
And, you know,
confirmed a lot of this information
and the quality of people we talked to,
if they ever go public,
it'll blow your mind who we talked to.
I was like, wow,
I can't believe I'm talking to X,
who's a really important person.
And they're confirming
these certain details
and they're saying like, you know,
we need to protect us at all costs.
They're giving me kind
of the whole speech about it.
And I'm sitting there, it's
like an out of body experience.
I'm like, okay, well, this is a thing.
I don't report to anybody
and there is no plan.
I'm not a part of some
like slow drip disclosure or anything.
If there is a plan, I'm
totally unwitting and holy shit,
they've like,
controlled me in a very passive manner
that is like masterclass,
but yeah, I'm
not a part of some weird shit,
you know that.
Did you ever, at any point
try to suss out
whether you were being lied to?
Because all of these people
are coming from the same programs
and so presumably
there's some level of coordination
between them.
So how do you kind of
get through - Yeah.
And just make sure that they're not
meeting in some back room saying,
you say this to Dave,
I'll say this to Dave, you know.
Yeah, no, for sure.
So, like,
I thought maybe
it was like a joke or something.
Maybe it was like a psy-op on me
or something. I don't even know.
And then, but the, you know,
near 40 people
we talk to a lot of the guys
I've known my entire career and like,
they wouldn't lie to me.
I have like a friendship with them
and for them
to, you know,
disclose to me that kind of stuff.
And it ends up being a false,
would have totally torpedoed
the friendship.
And I also went out of my way
to find people
who don't know each other either.
And I had other
high ranking
colleagues of mine
go talk to other people
that I didn't even personally talk to.
That group,
of course,
we took all that
and I'm like all the people
who conducted those interviews.
I made them get interviewed
by the inspector general
because we're crossing our T's here
because this shit is crazy.
And I was
I mean, you can never be perfect,
but I mean, I was so frickin careful
to make sure
I wasn't getting fed some bullshit.
If they were in coordination
together on a disinfo campaign,
holy fuck,
I shouldn't even be an intel officer
because I should have,
you know, sniffed that shit out. So.
In the last couple of years,
have you had incidences
that have caused you to be in fear
for your life
for addressing these issues?
Yes, personally.
There's a Chris Mellon story
where he's
supposed to meet
with somebody on the program
and he has the meeting all set up
and two weeks before the meeting,
he says that the guy just
randomly has a heart attack.
We were about two weeks
away from meeting when he died,
when he had a heart attack.
What was the last
special access program that leaked?
They don't generally leak.
People are like,
Oh, dude, wouldn't it
be broadly leaked or whatever?
I'm like,
as somebody who is super cleared
to a lot of that conventional stuff
over the years, stuff never leaks.
Yeah, it doesn't come out.
There are plenty of things
that are pretty serious.
They're broad
that have never seen the light of day.
Of course,
like you're going to tell someone
that their entire life
and their family and their kids like
everything is in danger.
It's it doesn't feel too far
fetched that
someone will keep a secret,
that if it threatens their life.
Look, dude,
you're not getting promoted.
You're going to lose your job.
You know,
the psychology of the typical career
government worker, right?
Stable paycheck, pension
maintained clearance.
So if any of that's threatened,
you know, they're going to
capitulate in most cases. Right.
The threatening nature
of some of their indoctrination
where they're like, this is treason.
You're going to Leavenworth
if you ever tell anybody
not in the program.
And oh, by the way,
what's the penalty for treason?
Oh, right. Execution. Right.
And I was like, well, of well,
fuck it,
I'll be the mouthpiece for you.
I'll be the leader,
I guess, and I will shepherd
you privately to the appropriate people
that could be a recipient
of your disclosure.
You don't have to go public,
but I'll do the thing.
I mean, you know, it's not just me
that,
you know, as
come forward, really, because, I mean,
Schumer, Rubio,
all those guys are like, woke
a bunch of freaking high level
officers came to us
and either they're crazy
or this shit's real.
Most of these people at some point
or maybe even currently
have held very high clearances
and high positions
within our government.
And then Schumer was compelled
to write
that big 64 page amendment that talks
no shit, non-human tech, recoveries
and you have the majority leader who’s
tight with the president
putting out a law
that will be signed here
hopefully this fall
that really puts the fucking executive
in a bind. Yeah. So
I don't
think that that was done in a vacuum.
I think the one thing
that can get the left
and the right together
is bloat
in the military industrial complex
And you know, yeah, nobody likes that.
I don't think members of Congress
don't like getting the door
shut on them either.
So they want
they want that information
because they represent the constituency
And that was the Matt Gaetz story.
Several months ago
my office received
a protected disclosure
from Eglin Air Force Base indicating
that there was a UAP incident
that required my attention.
We were not afforded access
to all of the flight crew,
who was basically denied access
to a crew
that had seen kind of a
diamond shaped formation of orbs.
He should be fully clued into,
if you know,
it is terrestrial in origin
because he's he's he's on the
Armed Services Committee.
If you could just name
anything titles, programs, departments,
regions, I'd be happy
to give you that
in a enclosed environment.
I can tell you specifically.
Thank you.
Maybe in a
if we could
get in a confidential area SCIF
we can talk about that.
But unfortunately we were denied access
to the SCIF.
A lot of the narrative
for the whole thing
was that you were denied a SCIF.
What does SCIF stand
for just for people.
It was a specialized
compartmented information facility,
which basically means
that you guys
would just get into a secure,
secure place where you can share.
Yeah, that's,
you know, a facility
that's accredited to talk at,
you know,
top secret, sensitive,
compartmented information level.
And yeah,
the members are pretty incensed that
I believe it was like
they couldn't reserve a SCIF
and then they couldn't
give me a one time
read on back into the right accesses.
Since I left the government.
Do you have any sense of why
that was denied?
I don't know.
No, I don't really have insight.
It was something they mentioned to me,
you know, it was security or something,
denied it.
If you believe we have crashed craft,
as stated earlier,
do we have the bodies of the pilots
who piloted this craft?
As I've stated
publicly already
in my News
Nation interview,
Biologics came
with some of these recoveries.
Yeah.
Were they,
I guess, human or non-human biologics?
Non-human.
And that was the assessment of people
with direct knowledge
on the program I talked to
that are currently
still on the program.
We had
one sort of bombshell
sound bite from the hearing
as Congresswoman
Nancy Mace asked you about biologics.
Ross Coulthart in the News Nation
interview asked you about pilots
coming out of these crafts.
Do you want to just speak to that
a little bit?
Yeah.
I mean, it's
it is a mind blowing side of it, right?
It's a little easy to imagine,
you know, an artifact or whatever.
But when you
start talking about,
you know, the biological side of it,
it really throws you
for a loop psychologically.
It did for me.
And, you know,
I talked to the people that, you know,
were on that aspect of
the program, if you will, And
I mean, it comes with the territory.
I mean, buckle up, I guess
I call them pilots
because that's like our vernacular.
What they
I don't know what their actual job was.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Non-human intelligence. Yeah.
But they had bodies.
Yeah.
I mean where they alive
where they dead.
I don't wanna get into specifics.
Yeah I know a lot of that stuff.
Out of curiosity,
why are you allowed to say
that NHI pilots came out of that craft
but you can't.
Well that's all I put
in the pre-publication stuff
I got approved. I mean, got it.
I could go back and ask for more,
but like I said earlier,
man, like, yeah, not your,
not your place, not your job.
Yeah.
And it's helpful
context for the audience
to realize that you literally
have like these contours
with when with, with
like you have to operate within -
any specific knowledge
I garnered
when I was
on the other side of the door.
If I want to talk about that publicly,
everybody who
has had a job like I have has to submit
to a thing called DOPSR
at the Pentagon, D.O.D.
Pre-Publication and Security Review.
You know,
even if it's about this stuff,
like I know it sounds insane,
but like, you literally
have to say, like,
this is why I want to talk about
why do you think they approved it?
Catch 22. Because.
So they'd have to self-identify
and highlight their concerns to redact.
So the office,
who would propose a redaction,
say it's a three letter
agency or whatever, Right?
They’d have to be like this office
objected to you saying
crash retrievals.
Here we're citing
the security classification guide. No.
And then you can litigate that, right,
to get it unredacted
if you think that's an inappropriate
application of security,
if it got redacted like that
and it cited what organization
and what security reason it is,
I would just publish that.
And then the public can under,
you know,
make its own interpretation, why,
you know, the U.S.
government's
withholding information
about that kind of thing
and wanted to sequester my speech.
So it's a catch 22
honestly for them and damned
if they do, damned if they don't.
I just wanted to put enough out there,
touch on all the most sensitive parts
like the biologic side
and like things
that really need to come out.
Yeah,
but I don't want to overly disclose
because it's not my job but enough to,
you know, put the flag out there.
Yeah, we need to elevate this,
this is serious,
some of the uncomfortable stuff,
like the biologic stuff
like I mentioned during the hearing.
Yeah.
You got to realize
some baggage is coming with it
besides, you know,
the Indiana Jones, you know,
warehouse thing that everybody thinks.
Why do the
politicians like
why do people who are higher up
feel like they need to hide
like evidence or like,
and just like the root cause?
Like, why is this like a topic that's.
Yeah,
I mean,
I can only know what the mindset was,
you know, multiple decades ago.
And like anything in government,
they're resistant to change.
So this is the way we set it up.
Remember, our trust in government
was high
back in the forties, postwar,
and then also society was less secular.
So there's you know, they're worried
about the religious
ontological shocks as well.
And they never really developed
a, we’ll call it, disclosure
plan for what it's worth.
And they just were like,
this is the way it's been
and we're going to keep it that way.
And we don't want Russia and China
to be exposed to any of this info.
And, you know,
we don't want to give them an edge.
And fortunately, it's that kind of
kind of low energy thinking.
If you got to ask
one question to ask someone
who is not alive anymore
that you feel could
answer a lot for you,
who would you pick
and what would the question be?
I would probably ask
Sarbacher, Oppenheimer and be like,
What was your thought process
in the forties and fifties,
you know, scrolling this away?
I mean, besides overlaying
the Manhattan Project secrecy,
because Oppenheimer was the one
who created the classification
that included the UFO stuff.
Oh, all those guys.
The guys that were involved in
Manhattan
were overlaying
the same ecosystem of secrecy
in some of the same ways to
protect stuff
that they're protecting
our nuclear secrets.
If you read the definition
of special nuclear material
in the Public
Atomic Energy Act of 1954,
it basically states
any material
that releases
any kind of atomic energy.
That would be retrieved,
crash material.
So it's kind of a sneaky way.
You know, it is
if you actually read
the Atomic Energy Act,
if something is not a nuke,
but it has radiological energy
coming off it,
you know, alpha, beta decay,
whatever, same secrecy, same secrecy.
Until now, we haven't
really had an exact understanding
of the mechanisms of UFO secrecy.
We do get a few hints
throughout history, though.
In 1947,
in the aftermath of frequent UFO
sightings across the United States,
Nathan Twining,
the head of all aircraft
development for the Air Force,
wrote a famous letter.
He writes that the UFO phenomena
is something real
and not visionary or fictitious.
Everyone today
focuses on this part of the now
famous Twining memo
that top brass at the Air
Force is conceding the reality of UFOs.
But the far more interesting
part of the letter is the postscript,
where he writes about the possibility
of American programs
trying to build crafts
with these capabilities.
He writes that any developments
in this country along the lines
indicated would be extremely expensive,
time consuming,
and at the considerable expense
of current projects,
and therefore,
if directed, should be set up
independently of existing projects.
If you were
the military industrial complex
and had to keep a top secret UFO
reverse engineering program
fully shielded from elected
civilian representatives
moving in and out of government,
which past programs
might be your inspiration?
The Manhattan Project.
Manhattan Project.
They were kind of the first blue book.
You know,
they were getting UFO reports
back in the day.
There were some people I'm
colleagues with that
like their grandparents were actually,
you know, the UFO report
people on the Manhattan Project
and I
remember being told
that I'm like, Really?
Holy crap, that's crazy.
You know,
there's like a whole other side of
Manhattan project.
This is a wild revelation.
Blue Book was the Air Force's
official program
tasked with investigating UFOs
in the fifties and sixties.
But it was basically
a propaganda mouthpiece
for the Air Force,
explaining away
and downplaying the phenomena
for the public.
Here, Dave is saying
that there might have been
a real deeper program than Blue
Book studying UFOs at the time.
And it was probably very tied
in with the Manhattan Project.
Legendary French UFO
researcher Jacques
Vallee told me the exact same thing.
Project Blue Book was the best
they could do at the time
because they felt
they had a real project going on
that was secret.
The Manhattan Project
would have custody of it,
and then
it would go into the
Atomic Energy Commission,
and then it would go
into the Department of Energy,
which has its own line of clearances.
But where
were these top secret
UFO programs taking place?
Well, the first hint
we get might actually come
from the quintessential UFO story,
the Roswell crash in 1947.
As the story goes, in 1947,
mysterious debris
from a crash was retrieved
by a rancher named Mac Brazel.
After collecting the wreckage,
the Roswell Army
Airfield issued a pretty insane
press release
stating that
a flying disc
had been retrieved from a local ranch.
But within 24 hours,
the military announced
that the saucer
had actually just been
a weather balloon.
Cut to 1978.
Lieutenant Colonel
Jesse Marcel said that this was all
just a cover story
to divert public attention
away from the truth
that the Roswell debris
was extraterrestrial tech,
which contained
bizarre hieroglyphics
and malleable memory metal.
According to him,
the materials
were eventually taken
to Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base in Ohio.
This actually makes sense.
Wright Pat was the place
that the military
would take enemy equipment
in order to reverse engineer it.
In fact, just a few years earlier,
the base was used
to successfully reverse engineer
a German pulse jet engine.
When prominent elected government
representatives would ask
what was going on at Wright-Patterson,
they would get shut down.
It didn't matter who they were.
Senators, presidential candidates,
even presidents.
If you didn't have a need to know,
you were on the outside.
I called Curtis LeMay
and I said, General,
I know
we have a room at Wright-Patterson
where you put all this secret stuff.
Could I go in there?
I've never heard him get mad,
but he got madder than hell at me,
cussed me out.
Said, don't ever ask me that question.
It's like, Well, what's going on?
Why would General LeMay act
like that to a sitting senator?
So unless you're George H.W.
Bush, Bush 41,
who is director of the CIA
as the president of the United States,
you probably don't even know
unless you unless you've
done the blood oath
and you were like the CIA director
or something
private previously,
unless you have to stroke a pen,
the sign like an executive order
or something.
Why would you have a need to know
unless you literally,
as the commander in chief,
need to know it to make a decision?
What else was housed
at Wright-Patterson?
Well,
it would become a nuclear
engineering test facility
and an antigravity research center.
It also was the site for Blue Book,
the anti UFO psyop
that the Air Force ran
in the fifties and sixties.
So when you're running a secret
UFO program,
you have people working on the UFOs,
and then you have people working on
throwing the public off the trail
and basically ensuring
that they have no idea
what you're doing.
The official Air Force
reply has long been
that there is no cover up.
You know,
I've seen this at other
conventional programs
you compartment it so much, you know,
some people don't know really
what they're working on.
Only the people that have
the top level accesses can look down
on all facets of the
pyramid, as we say.
And and that that hinders progress.
And then certainly with this subject,
when you're trying to
crack an unknown unknown,
that kind of obtuse security
doesn't help either.
When you say unknown unknown,
you know, is it
the USB drive to a caveman analogy
where it's like the caveman
doesn't know information
theory, doesn't have a computer
to plug the USB drive into,
and we just don't even know
where to start in terms
of reverse engineering.
Well, yeah,
I think it's like
it's like other people have given
the analogies are giving Galileo
a TI-83 plus graphing calculator.
They open it up
and they see circuitry
and they're like, well,
what is even this?
I don’t have a concept of a transistor.
But even that
or like a monkey with an iPhone.
You kinda know how.
Yeah.
If you open it up, sure,
you're confused,
but you kind of know
how to press the buttons
and you realize there's
this graphical interface or whatever.
That seems easier than caveman with
a USB drive.
So yeah. Like, where are we in that?
Yeah, I mean, some of it is it's
hard to gauge how far in advance it is
because you're just assuming
a certain linear progression.
You know,
I think some of this is
they made an asymptotal leap,
you know
put them over the edge
to a different kind of plane
of that's pretty fascinating -
like a different timeline almost.
If I was a betting man,
some of this NHI - they’re
similarly as advanced as us
but they've just made the
what is it, asymmetric evolution
or whatever.
They went a different path
where we made
nuclear weapons and stuff.
They ended up making this like,
civil propulsion kind of equivalent.
Yeah.
Discovery where
they're able to do this now,
but they're actually not
that much more advanced than you and I.
I always found interesting
to the monolith
in 2001, A Space Odyssey,
which is this sort of thing
placed on Earth
that it inspires tech innovation.
It's almost like
John Mack
would talk about
a lot of these alien sightings
being slightly more advanced,
but barely comprehensible tech
for the time,
almost inspiring tech innovation.
I often think of it
as laying breadcrumbs in a direction.
The communication could be
you think you're really smart
because you blew up
a weapon down the road here?
Now, you know, look at this.
Right, right, right.
It's just like, you know, we went from
you look at our own human development,
you know, we immediately,
once we cracked the atom,
I mean, holy crap,
nuclear power, weapons,
you know,
we went from,
orders of magnitude
of energy extraction
up to, you know, ten to the six tons
of TNT equivalent.
And that's kind of
what we're talking about.
It's like
we're like one,
you know,
discovery away to,
you know, maybe manipulate space time
or whatever.
Based off of the information
that you've been privy to,
is there any indication that these
UAPs are interested
in our nuclear technology
and capabilities?
Yes. By external observation, sure.
That could be a fair assessment.
Yeah. Yes.
The nuclear UFO connection is deeper
and more bizarre
than you can ever imagine.
You remember that vice story
that ran in 2022 about a town in Japan
that's obsessed with UFOs?
Well, it's a place called Lino,
and it's right next to Fukushima,
where a 2011 earthquake
triggered a famous
nuclear power meltdown.
Or take this incident in 1994, 62
elementary school
kids at the Arial International School
in Zimbabwe
said that they saw
a silver craft descend
from the sky and land on a field
near their school.
Well, guess
where the aerial school was?
And, you know, an ariel school
that was near a uranium mining site.
That is right, as far as I understand.
But maybe the best
collection of evidence
around the UFO nuclear connection
comes from a very creatively
named book called UFOs
and Nukes by Robert Hastings.
He started to
investigate and
just speak to all of these
radar operators,
and a lot of them claim
some pretty crazy things around
seeing UFOs around nuclear bases.
Over the past 37 years,
I have personally located
and interviewed
more than 120 of these former
or retired military personnel.
You have Robert Salas
at Malmstrom saying
that the whole base
was actually rendered inoperable.
This time
he was screaming into the phone
saying they're looking at an object,
a red glowing object.
Yeah the sights were going down,
like one by one.
Very rarely does a missile malfunction.
And I don't think any much more rare of
this would be two at the same time.
But never ten.
You have Bob Jacobs
at Vandenberg in 64.
He's a photo
instrumentation specialist.
They were launching
dummy nuclear warheads
off of Atlas five missiles
and seeing a UFO kind of wrap around it
and take it down.
And I said,
it looks like we've got a UFO.
You have hundreds of accounts
of these missile man
radar operators for at nuclear sites
who have no incentive to lie.
In many cases, the incentives-
or in all cases, the incentives
split in the other direction,
saying that they're seeing stuff.
Well, I know the missileers,
you know,
they're on what they call PRP,
personal reliability program.
Like they have to, like, report
if they're like, you know,
take an ibuprofen,
for God's sakes, because,
you know, they're a key turner
for nuclear weapons.
These missileers
go through the most
stringent of mental health
exams to get their jobs.
They're literally the people we task
with hitting the button
that sends a nuke.
By definition,
they're the picture of mental health.
And they are all steeped in a culture
that frowns upon attention seeking.
Time and time again,
these missile
men would see UFOs
near nuclear facilities,
and without fail,
the Air Force
Office of Special Investigations
would show up.
Men in black style,
confiscate the footage,
threaten the witness
and swear them to secrecy.
And he said, Lieutenant Jacobs,
you are never to speak of this again.
It never happened.
From Hastings work,
we now know that UFO
sightings were happening
all across
American nuclear production,
missile storage and deployment sites,
plutonium enrichment sites
like Hanford, Washington and Savannah
River Site in South Carolina.
To nuclear stockpiles at Fort
Hood, Texas, and Killeen Base Camps.
From Los Alamos to Sandia
to Malmstrom to F.E. Warren.
The list goes on.
What is the connection with nuclear?
Is it
the kind of benevolent protector theory
they don't want us
to destroy ourselves?
Or is it that some weird
like they're mining us for something
and so they want to
protect their resources?
Or is it the power unlock thing
where we could rip
space time
and maybe be able to travel
like they can travel?
And so, you know,
nuclear power is the axis along
which we're making
progress towards that. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, it might be as simple as like
it's an attractant, like a fly
or mosquito to a blue light, right.
It could be something
as simple as that.
I mean, it's
so hard because to put yourself
in a different sentient’s shoes
to understand intent and
all that, I mean,
could be probing,
could be reconnaissance, could be just,
you know, mere curiosity.
Yes.
You know,
Oh, they're only,
you know,
two or three orders of magnitude away
energy extraction from,
you know, you know, manipulating space
time in an Alcubierre
you know, warp drive type thing.
And maybe they're
interested in that, too,
to understand our
our development as a civilization.
I mean, without having,
you know, a
penetration into their ooda loop
or whatever, we'll never really know.
Yeah, it could be all of the above.
Yeah.
And it's really impossible
to really ever gauge intent.
The controller told us
that these objects
had been observed for over two weeks
coming down from over
80,000 feet,
rapidly descending to 20,000 feet,
hanging out for hours
and then going straight back up.
For those don't realize,
above 80,000 feet is space.
It's just this cat and mouse
sort of
recursive unsolvability
where it's just very hard to classify.
It's almost like playing with you
a little bit.
Even Commander David Fravor in
his account was like
the thing felt like
it was like breathing and looking at me
and knew- he even said,
he let it slip in the testimony.
It was like it
definitely was aware of our existence.
I'm like, How do you know that, man?
You're not in the UFO shoes, but yeah,
I understand what he was saying,
which is you can sense
when somebody is looking at you.
Yeah, I know.
I've had some folks I talked to
that had their own kind of up
close kind of sightings.
They said that they got that vibe, too,
You know,
who knows
if that's psychosomatic or what.
But they did they
they did get a vibe like that too.
When you stare into the abyss
long enough, the abyss stares back.
Yeah, exactly.
And then, of course,
I've had a very smart guy
who was like, Well, did
Darwin care to fully conceal himself
when he studied finches?
And it's like they observe,
they don't really care.
And they don't really care to interact,
but they're just here to observe.
But is that your bias, that it's
sort of an anthropological
zoological model where
they're like studying us
and we're in this kind of petri dish?
Yeah,
I think, you know,
I'll give credit to Luis
for the whole gorilla
in the cage and, you know,
throw it
a banana,
throw it the key, and see
if it can unlock the cage.
And and maybe that's what's,
you know,
some of these, you know, crashes were
and it wasn't really a mission failure,
if you will.
It was, you know, maybe some seeding.
And this is total
theoretical framework here.
So it's like you never really know.
But you see
what you can do with this or
the key is nuclear power or something.
And it's like the gorilla has
we have the key.
Another analogy
that Eric Weinstein loves to use
is he talks about
North Sentinel Island,
which is
an island of Aboriginals
who basically have not made any contact
with with civilization.
It's off the coast of India,
and the Indian government basically
just lets them do their thing
and kind of respects them.
And take this analogy,
if the North Sentinelese
started developing nukes,
maybe the Indian government
would start to pay
a little more attention
To the extent
that there is interference,
I think one anomaly
that's important to talk about
is it
seems to be like
there's a lot
of electromagnetic radiation
that comes off of these crafts.
And I remember talking to Gary Nolan
and he mentioned
that he was kind of given
a file by the CIA and he was
tasked with looking into this.
And it was two things.
It was people
who had anomalous UFO experiences,
and it was people who had experienced
Havana syndrome.
Diplomats and spies
began to hear sounds and fall
ill with a mysterious illness
that people struggled to explain.
What became known as Havana Syndrome.
And in both cases,
you have this kind of
severe electromagnetic
radiation effects and often
differences in the caudate
nucleus and putamen,
which is in the basal ganglia,
the dorsal striatum of the brain,
the scarring,
but also the neuronal density
of that area of the brain
would cause somebody
to even make sort of contact.
But do you have
do we have any theories
on kind of
the electromagnetic
radiation component?
I mean, I mean, certainly if we were to
look at it
from like
a relativistic perspective,
well, that sounds like visible band
light being blue
shifted into the ultraviolet
and you're getting literally a sunburn.
And and if you look at an Alcubierre
type thing where, you know,
lights getting lensed
around the craft, etc., stuff
should be blue and red shifting.
So things coming towards
you would actually redshift spectrally.
And the people getting like burns
so that's ultraviolet
it's like ionizing radiation.
So that would be light
being blue shifted into the ultraviolet
as it's lens
across the bubble
that the craft creates.
And so we are seeing artifacts
that seem to show that it's
they're basically
manipulating space time.
And I guess that's
why you get this sort
of skipping across
time effect or something.
It looks like the things are just
you're sort of you're
literally folding space
time, I guess, so
you can get from point A
to point Z- you're riding a wave,
basically create a wave
and you're on top of the tsunami wave
and you're riding across space time.
And then, of course, there's
the kind of the other thing
is, you know, if
it's like an Einstein
Rosen Bridge thing,
you know, two points
on a piece of paper and you fold it.
But like
but the way
they're jumping around and skipping is
if you're riding the wave,
it looks like you're moving
very rapidly and
like punctuated
kind of movements
because think of an accordion
and those waves, the wave
you’re riding’s an accordion,
when you flatten out the accordion
like flat space time,
you would smoothly move across.
But I think we're we're stuck
with like, Einstein’s
stuff was amazing and nobody's really
I mean, there's
obviously people with string theory,
M brane,
all these other different
physics theories, you know,
quantum gravity and other theories.
But, you know,
there hasn't been something
that's, you know,
unified all the weak and strong
force, etc..
And that's an ongoing thing.
And I think you finding the Higgs
boson is going to be the big answer.
Yeah, we'll see.
So speaking of string theory,
it feels like it
just hasn't shipped a product.
You have our best and brightest,
often really smart people
getting into this sort of field that,
you know,
maybe you can detect black holes
with strings,
but generally it's
just not that useful.
Well, string theory,
I mean, mathematically
it works out right?
But like
most of the stuff
you can't empirically observe
because the strings are so small.
Subatomically there's just like,
no way of- it’s 11 dimensions.
No way of verifying that.
So it's a nice
I'll call it like overlay or that
that maybe this,
maybe this is reality maybe it's not,
it mathematically works out.
I think it's force fitting
general relativity
and quantum field theory.
But this brings
up an interesting question, which is
can we go down the tree
trunk of physics
and then find another branch?
Clearly quantum physics with nuclear
and hydrogen bombs
as its byproducts
was becoming dangerous.
It is an atomic bomb.
It is a harnessing of the basic power
of the universe.
After the invention
of these apocalyptic weapons was true
fundamental physics
then concealed in deep
black aerospace?
While public facing physics,
was sent into a cul de sac
so it could do less damage?
Were there actually updates in physics,
maybe mid-century,
that were not disclosed to the public?
Okay, I realize this sounds
kind of insane, but hear me out.
Imagine that
this billiard ball is a proton.
The golden age of relativity,
was a wild,
forgotten time
in the history of American physics.
This was a period in the fifties
where the study of antigravity-
Yeah, you heard me right, antigravity.
Experienced a dramatic
resurgence of interest,
not just among quacks,
among real physicists.
Since then,
there has been a steady
but constant improvement.
Roger Babson,
a patron of science, was obsessed
with finding the solution
to antigravity.
His Gravity Research Foundation
held a popular essay contest
which garnered contributions
from many of the top minds at the time.
Meanwhile, another industrialist,
Agnew Bahnson,
started the Institute of Field Physics
in North Carolina,
also dedicated to study of antigravity.
His Chapel Hill conference
in 1957 included
top physicists like Bryce DeWitt,
Richard Feynman, Peter Bergman,
Freeman Dyson and John Wheeler
all there to discuss
the role of gravity in physics.
As physicist
Louis Witten would go on to say
about antigravity in the fifties,
it was in the wind,
meaning it was everywhere.
He said,
What are you doing about anti-gravity?
And I said, Well, I'm
not against gravity.
Witten actually worked in Martin
Corporation's Antigravity
Research unit. That's right.
They had an antigravity
research outfit.
It was called Research Institute
for Advanced Studies,
or RIAS for short.
And Martin Corporation,
of course, would later
become Lockheed Martin.
Louis Witten's
direct boss
at RIAS was a guy named George Trimble
in a 1956 article
found in Jane's Defense Weekly.
George Trimble
said, We're already
working on nuclear
fuels and equipment
to cancel out
gravity, and added
that the conquest of gravity
could be done
in about the amount of time
it took to build the first atom bomb.
By the time
the sixties had rolled around,
most people had kind of forgotten
about antigravity.
It quieted down
because nobody ever got anywhere,
or it quieted down
because it did get
somewhere and it went black.
This kind of weird where,
as far as I know,
in my kind of
topological physics
history knowledge, where,
you know,
there was all these anti-grav groups
up until the early sixties
and then they, you know,
totally vaporized.
You know,
there's physics knowledge
held by aerospace companies
that is not known.
There certainly is materials knowledge.
Materials which involves
topological physics or whatever.
It's hard to say
whether anything real was discovered
in the realm of anti-gravity
or if it went black.
But when aviation journalist,
Nick Cook, tried to meet with the
then long retired 80
something year old George Trimble
through a friend of his at Lockheed
Martin, this was the message
he received back: Quote, unquote-
I don't know who this old man
is or what he once was,
but he told me in no uncertain terms
to get off his case.
He doesn't want to speak to me
and he doesn't want to speak to you.
Not now, not ever.
I don't mind telling you
that he sounded scared.
Did deep black Aerospace
secretly make a huge breakthrough
in antigravity?
Well, when he worked for Martin
in the fifties,
Lewis Witten
specialized in nonlinear
algebra and topological physics.
The two things that you'd need
to investigate gravity
and maybe how to beat it.
He also did contract
work on gravity
for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
The reason there was a laboratory
at Wright
Field was to find out
what we were doing
and to help us do it.
And I got a contract from Wright
Field to do it,
to do Gravity,
which I did very happily.
And who is Louis Witten’s son?
Ed Witten.
Just the most formidable
proponent of string theory,
maybe of all time.
Do you think that string theory,
which Ed Witten worked
on, is intentionally
a bridge to nowhere?
I have privately said to you
that string theory was a
very odd development
because it both allowed physics
to proceed
as if it was doing something new
while breaking no new ground
in the physical world in which we live.
I don't really
know if you were trying
to stagnate the field,
string theory is pretty brilliant.
And remember that Chapel
Hill conference that’s thrown
in 1957 by Agnew Bahnson who's obsessed
with antigravity?
Well, Louis Witten was there.
And the conference helped
establish quantum gravity
of which string theory is an offshoot.
In an interview
with the American Institute of Physics,
when antigravity gets brought
up, Louis Witten says,
a guy named Townsend discovered
that there was a type of bismuth
that was repelled
instead of attracting.
There was a vice president
of the Martin Company
who brought that up.
He said, I read about a guy in Indiana
who says the rock of bismuth, that's
it shows antigravity.
And where have we heard about bismuth
with possible
anti-gravity properties before?
That's Gary
Nolan, Stanford microbiologist
and Nobel nominee
who claims to have UFO crash parts
with isotope ratios
that don't occur naturally on earth.
One of his pieces
that we looked at together
when I visited was magnesium bismuth.
Bismuth layers,
less than a human hair
supposedly picked up
in the crash retrieval
of an advanced aerospace vehicle.
Nowhere could we find any evidence
that anybody ever made one of these.
And who's this Townsend
guy Witten’s referring to?
Witten had to have been talking
about Townsend Brown,
one of the country's leading
antigravity researchers at the time.
Yeah, and there's a
guy named Townsend
Brown who had a theory that if you took
two charged plates
and then you put something
neutral between them,
the neutral thing would
sort of gravitate a little towards
the positively charged plate.
And you could basically
figure out antigravity.
From the outside,
Townsend Brown sort of
looks like an amateurish
mid-century physicist
and failed inventor
exploring the kooky
world of antigravity
just to end up failing in
creating the intellectual property
behind the Ionic Breeze Air Purifier.
I'm not joking.
But a great biography called
The Man
Who Mastered Gravity by Paul
Schatzkin tells the real story.
He parachuted
behind enemy lines into Germany in 1944
and started looking into the German
UFO reverse engineering program.
That’s crazy.
OSS and MI6 super spies Bill Donovan
and William
Stephenson
needed the Allies preeminent
antigravity scientist
to investigate the notorious Foo
Fighter phenomena.
These were bizarre orbs
that looked like
intelligently controlled ball
lightning popping up all over
Germany in the early forties
and messing with Allied fighter pilots.
I couldn't find a
ton of corroboration
outside of Schatzkin’s
book on this story.
But here's why I think it's true.
We do know for a fact
that Eisenhower sent
General James
Doolittle to investigate
Swedish ghost rockets.
These were tons of UFO sightings
in Sweden
and Finland in the immediate
aftermath of World War II.
Curiously, Doolittle
then went back to the United States
just to found the Lindbergh
Foundation, which researched
novel aviation propulsion methods.
So I wouldn't be totally surprised
if Townsend Brown was tasked
with the same thing with Foo Fighters.
I mean, there's some other stuff, too,
that I can't talk about
that was way before that.
So you're like, Oh, shit.
But what did Brown's work
in Antigravity have to do with UFOs?
Well, his gravitator looked exactly
like a flying saucer.
He found that
circular craft were better
for that application than winged craft.
And behind closed doors,
Townsend Brown was obsessed with UFOs.
He even created NICAP,
the National Investigations
Committee on Aerial Phenomena.
When Townsend's daughter, Linda Brown,
and his biographer requested
the scientist’s records from the Navy,
they were at first very uncooperative.
And then eventually they hinted that
a lot of Brown's
work was still classified.
But why would Brown's work
be classified
if he was just a failed hack?
The National Secrecy Act
prevented scientists like T.
Townsend Brown from commercializing
or even publicizing any technology
which could potentially be interpreted
as having a military application.
Well we know from Schatzkin’s biography
that Brown actually had meetings
with the highest level officials
in American atomic programs,
people like Edward
Teller, the father of the hydrogen
bomb, and General
Curtis LeMay,
both deep insiders
when it came to atomic secrets.
Townsend Brown's daughter Linda
even recalls
that he was often taken home
in a black Cadillac driven
by a man
that she would eventually come
to know as Robert Sarbacher.
And where have we heard
that mysterious name before?
Sarbacher,
somebody purportedly involved
in the stand up of the stuff
that I uncovered. Right.
But if you look deeper, things
get even weirder with Brown.
In the naval records that we do have,
it shows
that Brown was suddenly terminated
by the Navy in 1942
with no explanation,
despite strong performance.
Two weeks later,
he mysteriously pops up as an employee
at Martin Corporation in Burbank,
just 50 miles
from where Skunkworks
is founded
a year later, by legendary
aeronautical engineer Kelly Johnson.
Skunkworks was created to house
Martin's most advanced, secretive work.
Over 80% of its current
projects are still classified.
Is it a coincidence
that Townsend Brown
joined Martin Corporation
a year before its founding?
And guess who else funded Brown?
None other than Agnew Bahnson,
the same antigravity financier
who helped send physics into a dead end
by popularizing quantum gravity.
Okay. Okay. Townsend Brown.
I’ll remember that.
I want to look that up.
I heard it in one of the documentaries-
because there is
this golden age
of relativity in the fifties,
and then everything
sort of went silent.
And I think that's
an interesting axis
for you guys to look into.
Okay, this is all interesting,
but I know, right?
We don't have a smoking gun
that any of Brown's work
actually got implemented by deep
Black Aerospace.
Well, that's actually not true.
We kind of do have evidence.
In March of 1992,
Aviation Week
broke a story about the B-2
stealth bomber.
It used an electrokinetic effect
in its wings,
producing a Biefield-Brown effect.
The B-2
surfs its own
electrostatic wave,
the negative cloud
chasing the positive wing.
This is an exact description
of Townsend
Brown's work,
and the Biefield-Brown Effect
is literally named after him.
And the B-2 was built
by the merged Northrop Grumman,
whose major investor, Floyd Odlum,
was the same guy that invested
in Townsend Brown's
company Guidance
Technologies in the sixties.
I guess Townsend Brown
isn't just the wacky fan guy anymore.
There's just like this
parallel history.
It's very
tightly coupled to
what is known
publicly, paperclip, etc..
But there's this like other side of it
that a lot of it
dealt with the UFO, UAP issue
in earnest.
Operation Paperclip was a secret
CIA program
that took more
than 1600 former Nazi
scientists and engineers
and placed them in senior leadership
roles in American
military, intelligence
and space programs
in the wake of World War II.
Germans made more progress
than anybody at the time.
Just in aerospace generally.
The V-2 flying rocket
was 20, 30 years ahead of anybody-
the M262
jet fighter and-
the whole wunderwaffe arsenal.
And one has to ask
why do we have such a pressing
need to get Wernher von Braun
and Arthur Rudolph and all these guys?
The NASA's
Saturn program
was literally transplantation
of the Nazi program.
Why was there such a pressing
need to get all these people in the US?
And, you know,
maybe it had something
to do with the UFO thing, who knows.
Because Wernher von Braun
was also a very trippy guy.
Remember that story about Townsend
Brown parachuting
into Germany
to investigate Foo
Fighters and Nazi UFO programs?
Well, maybe
Operation Paperclip
had a little more to do with UFOs
than meets the eye.
Yeah, Paperclip’s
pretty nuts when you think about it.
Like, ethically and morally,
you had
people that were war criminals,
people who were gonna be
tried at Nuremberg. Yes.
They they took off that
and then they snatched them
and brought them back to the U.S.
And a lot of them became seniors
at what became the CIA.
And, you know, NASA.
And and it's like,
yeah,
I don't know
if it would have happened nowadays.
I feel like we would
actually not be able
to turn a blind eye to like,
oh, there's no chance.
Yeah, Wernher Von Braun oversaw
a brutal, mostly
Jewish slave
labor camp
where tons and tons of people died.
Yeah.
And then he went on to literally run
our space program.
It's pretty interesting history.
Yeah.
Like his boss, like the German
general that, you know,
Von Braun
worked for back in Germany, you know,
you know, came over
and was like very high up.
And I think it was NASA.
After so many witnesses,
it seemed the so-called flying saucers
their existence cannot longer
be denied.
You know, it's kind of like getting red
pilled in the matrix.
Yeah. Oh, holy shit.
Reality is, like, way
crazier and weirder than
than I thought.
There's more likely people
from the program
watching your channel than ours.
Maybe. I can tell you that for sure.
They're like,
this Jesse
guy keeps making speculations.
He's coming closer and closer.
Well that's the thing, is
if you have somebody
who has a great intelligence on this,
you should probably bring them in
and not,
you know,
leave him out there speculating. Right.
If you're on the program,
mind strictly the nightmare type,
reports of flying
saucers are nothing new
from the beginning of recorded time
men have been seen
unexplainable things in the sky
Some one of you
told me the other day about this
saucer, the flying saucer
someone that word before
it became in movies or something. Yeah.
And we had the public hearing with the
Yes family that was brought up.
Anyone want to- Yeah.
Kenneth Arnold In 1947,
two months before Roswell
was looking for a downed
cargo plane in Mount Rainier,
he saw this kind of like saucer
skipping or saucer skipping.
It was
they were in a V flying V formation.
I think the point of that was
in culture, the word flying
saucer was not derived from fiction.
It's the other way around.
It was like
people like our depiction of aliens
and flying
saucers were actually were derived
from people's real life stories,
not the other way around.
And that's always
a misconception about.
Yes, but this is
an important conversation.
I don't know
if you have an opinion on this,
but books like American Cosmic
by Diana Pasulka
and Passport to Magonia
by Jacques Vallee, do
talk about how the noble
mythology of the time,
whether it's the religion or media,
do play somewhat of a role
in sort of shading
how you recollect an experience.
So the classic example is Betty
and Barney Hill in 1961.
Outer Limits was a CBS show
that had played 11 days
before that abduction experience,
and it showed aliens with eyes
that wrapped around
the rims of their head.
And that's exactly
what they sort of described.
Yeah, analytical
overlay, it's almost like we discussed
before where you had, like,
you know,
witches sitting on the chests of people
feeling paralyzed in medieval times.
It's like,
you know, our overlay
is this classic alien kind of motif.
But like,
if you look at what they said before,
it's the same phenomenon.
Basically, people
their analytical overlay’s different.
So they, you know,
describe it in a different way.
Leprechauns, fairies,
elves, angels, demons.
We just superimpose our own reality
onto the thing.
It's almost like you have,
like a meme library in your head
and then you have this
higher platonic thing that's happening
and you attach the, the closest meme
that you can to it. Yeah, exactly.
People have been seeing the same stuff.
Like so
the tic tac of today
was the flying butane
tank photo of the 1950s.
And you can find declassified
Air Force OSI reports
that are publicly searchable right now.
Yeah.
That talk about these
like flying white butane tanks. Right.
And you know, the Foo Fighter
phenomenon in World War Two.
And then if you were to go way back,
you know,
you see stuff
that's basically described
the same in antiquity as well.
So whether it be extraterrestrial,
you know,
some other kind of origin,
you know, crypto, terrestrial,
what are some of the other stuff
people postulate.
We deserve to understand,
you know, truths of the universe.
And if we have
the answer one of
life's questions, right?
You know what happens when we die?
And are we alone?
If we can answer one of those.
But it's kept in secret
because they believe
the public can't handle it
or it hinders this like, you know,
Cold War arms
race that I talked about
in my first public interview.
That seems pretty messed up to me.
What do you think about
elite interest in the topic?
So the Rockefellers funded Steven Greer
in the nineties-
and John Mack- and John Mack,
and they funded the Princeton
Parapsychology Lab.
Then you have Chris
Mellon, who's a Mellon,
obviously sort of interested
in the subject.
I think there are letters
between Lawrence Rockefeller
and Hillary Clinton in the nineties
where he's sort of pushing
for disclosure. That's right.
Because I think
I think it was David
Rockefeller was also involved in that
and it was like a Camp David meet up
and she's in
and she's
holding the book by Paul Davies,
Are We Alone
And there's a photo of that.
And it's wild.
Certainly if you use the Rockefellers
as the most prominent
example, they're certainly
called old money elite
interests,
and maybe it's because of their
interest in frontier science
or who knows?
I've never talked to the Rockefellers.
I have no idea what spurred
that interest on,
but they were certainly pushing
for transparency on the issue.
And that's
one of the most influential families
in America, right?
It is important
in any scientific process
to try to maintain the null hypothesis
for as long as possible
and actually
Kuhn, who wrote the,
you know, structure
of scientific revolutions,
you know, talks about this.
And he was friends with John Mack,
who was the head of the Harvard
Psychiatry Department,
who tried to maintain
the null hypothesis and say, you know,
I don't think this is real
because he started-
He was actually a private clinician.
He started to see people
who would bring up
these alien encounters.
And I think the thing
that's really important for people
is just the amount
of credentialed people
that once
they start to have an open mind
and actually genuinely inquire
and usually these people
start to take it seriously.
Yeah, like I have a good friend,
Eric Weinstein, who's, you know,
pretty well respected,
you know, public intellectual,
you know,
I used to just wax poetic, you know,
Hey, look like this is real.
I promise you, this is real.
And he used to think- he-
so I think his quote is like,
this is the one area
where you had brain damage.
You would not come off of this point.
And I was convinced that you were brain
damaged on this one issue.
You know, I really was.
And now,
you know, look, I think, you know,
he oscillates,
but he's
pretty deep into the history
to the point
where he's
he's bought in that
this is at least something
worthy of investigation.
Yeah.
I mean, there's certainly
some scholarship there,
whether it be Jacques Vallee or,
you know, Diana Pasulka recently.
And Jacques Vallee built
the earliest version of the Internet,
you know, ARPANET or he helped it,
you know, Doug Engelbart
and is a serious astronomer.
These people have serious backgrounds.
Yeah I mean,
I was a really hard core intel guy
working on some of the hardest,
most deep black stuff.
And I didn't
really think much about UFOs,
but then I started looking into it,
you know, I have, like,
people in tears, like, you know,
naval officers,
pilots, etc.,
wanting to tell me
what they literally saw.
And, you know, and,
you know, either
a lot of people are having
psychological breaks.
There's a lot of weird
weather phenomena
that manifest themselves in physical,
tangible, like metallic
looking craft that are close.
That seems crazy to me.
And and I'm like, well,
these people
deeply believe what they saw.
And I have to take them seriously.
So we need to figure out
what this phenomenon is.
Carl Jung
wrote a book about flying-
the book is called Flying Saucers,
and he talks about flying saucers
as the kind of Mandala,
the Sanskrit symbol
of psychic completeness.
And it's this proto
psychological desire for us to, like,
have this kind of revelation of, like,
knowing everything all at once.
And what was crazy about it
as he wrote the book and he was like,
this is just kind of a symbolic
psychological archetype.
And then afterwards
he became convinced
that the phenomena was actually real.
There are things flying around up there
that we haven't fully identified yet.
Roswell is a very interesting place
with a lot of people
that would like to know
what's going on.
There's footage and records of objects
in the skies that we don't know
exactly what they are.
We saw a bright light
appear in the distant western skies.
Okay, At this point in the video,
you might be thinking there's
actually a decent amount
of evidence for UFOs.
So why are people
so reflexively and often
smugly dismissive of the topic?
No to predictions, no to aliens.
Well, on the one hand,
it's a fair reaction.
There are a multitude of profit
and attention seeking
charlatans in the space, people
who have absolutely no interest
in pursuing truth,
who embellish stories
and sell snake oil for a living.
Then, of course,
you have your counterintelligence
crew throwing constant smoke bombs
and trying to confuse
you and throw you off the trail.
But maybe the most important point
when discussing the insane
stigma around UFOs
is that some of the biggest,
most prominent skeptics
over the last 50 years,
the people who've done more damage
to open
research on the topic
than anyone else were,
you guessed it,
from the atomic programs.
The same atomic programs
Dave is saying are responsible
for initially studying UFOs
and then establishing their secrecy.
I find it really interesting
that you have
some of the most prominent debunkers
guys like Menzel,
guys like Condon, H.P.
Robertson.
Who were kind of
big shots,
who'd also worked
on the Manhattan Project.
Condon was involved.
Oh, I didn't realize that.
Oh, yeah,
he worked with Vannevar Bush a lot.
Oh, really? Oh yeah, yeah.
Edward Euler Condon was a mid-century
quantum physicist,
and no single person
is more responsible
for the marginalization of UFOs
than this man
and his famous Condon Committee.
This 1966 investigation into UFOs
was paid for,
but supposed to be uninfluenced
by the Air Force.
But we now know that Condon
was actually coordinating
closely with Air Force officials
like Colonel Robert Hippler,
who had expressed clear written desire
that all previous UFO
research be shown as a waste of money.
The Condon Committee's report
dealt a death blow
to UFO research
in the second half of the 20th century.
The back story here is
that Condon was very deep
in the world of atomic secrets.
Not only did he study
with Robert Oppenheimer
under Max Born
in Germany together in the twenties,
he's sometimes credited
for helping Oppenheimer
pick Los Alamos as the site
for the Manhattan Project.
Condon knew the area well,
having grown up
around the corner in Alamogordo.
He also recruited
a lot of the project's early staff
and wrote the Los
Alamos Primer,
a document
all employees had to read
before arrival.
Then, in 1946,
Condon helped draft
the McMahon Atomic Energy Act,
which again, Dave is literally saying
establishes the framework
for UFO secrecy.
The McMahon Act of 46,
which was the predecessor
to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
The guys that were involved
in Manhattan
were overlaying
the same ecosystem of secrecy
in some of the same ways
to protect stuff.
That they were protecting
our nuclear secrets.
So Condon was probably clued in
to high level
UFO secrets from the start.
And how many people were deterred
from studying UFOs
because this one high
prestige quantum physicist
told them it was a waste of time.
So was Condon
just an insider
who knew the truth behind UFOs
and was
he used by the original atomic
UFO programs
and by the Air Force to downplay it?
Bob Lazar said he worked at
a secret facility near Groom Lake,
where Alien Technology
was being reverse engineered.
Do you think Bob Lazar is full of shit?
Bob Lazar is by far
the most famous case of somebody
who publicly claims
to have secretly worked on
reverse engineering UFOs.
He outed himself in 1989
and since then has remained
remarkably consistent in his story,
even while detractors cite
that he possibly faked
his educational credentials at MIT.
He ended up actually recently
going on Joe Rogan.
And it's still like this
bizarre split
where, like so many people were like,
he was right. He was right.
And people are now using your testimony
to say he's totally vindicated.
And then the verdict’s still out
because I a lot of ufologists UFO
people that I really respect
are just pretty skeptical.
So I don't know if you have a take.
Yeah, I mean I'm certainly
different than him.
I came at it from a different angle.
I have no information on Bob Lazar,
it wasn't in the scope
of my looking into
it kind of activities.
If he actually ever experienced
what he experienced, I'd
literally have no idea.
Honestly, I go
back and forth on
whether Bob Lazar is telling the truth
all the time.
On the one hand,
the guy sells illicit chemicals
on a sketchy website,
invested in a brothel
and seems like a petty
conman and criminal.
But on the other hand,
he definitely has
some engineering prowess.
He strapped a jet
engine to the back of his Honda.
He may have actually met
with Edward Teller
and he probably did do
some work at Los Alamos.
Finally, his story
just seems so consistent.
He really doesn't seem like a guy
who thinks he's lying.
Look, there's a lot of weird stuff
about the Bob Lazar story.
His story's been absolutely consistent
since the late 1980s.
It's a classic intelligence tactic
to give people
95% correct information
and 5% false information.
You can track the flow of information
by the uniquely false details in it.
And you can easily discredit the leak.
Bob Lazar would hang around
some interesting characters.
Guys like John Lear,
who flew cargo planes
for the CIA in the seventies.
Lear definitely seemed
to spread disinformation
in other cases.
He was also the son of Bill
Lear, inventor
of the Learjet
who may have been involved
in the original UFO program.
My question is, did John Lear
manipulate Lazar
into spreading a bunch
of pure disinformation?
And so Lazar's
claim that he worked on
UFOs was all a complete lie?
Or was Lazar just a disclosure test
for Lear and others around him?
Let's see how the public
reacts to this guy.
He's easy to discredit,
but mostly telling the truth.
Personally, I'm not sure what to think
and would love to meet Lazar myself
and ask him what he meant
when he told Jacques Vallee
about the liquid he was made to drink
and the memory lapses
it caused
and about his relationship
with John Lear.
There’s
probably a small contingency out there
that says the US needs to
maintain primacy.
You have this exotic tech
that we've found, you know,
in the case of whatever crashes
that have occurred.
We don't know
exactly what to do with it.
Maybe we made more progress early
on than we have now.
We need to kind of refresh
the talent pool
and maybe out ourselves
as a program and frontrun immunity
through legislature to do that.
What do you say to those people
that- Yeah,
because I mean, that's something
I tried to espouse on News Nation.
I can't remember how they
edited it or whatever, but
it actually
hurts national supremacy
to keep it obtusely secret.
Yeah, that's what I’m saying.
You can't even bring
the right people on it
you know
say the best theoretician in quantum
thermodynamics just happens to
smoke marijuana
so he can't get a clearance
and he can’t get on the program.
So it actually hurts,
you know, national security
by not opening it up,
at least in an appropriate way,
that we're not compromising anything
that somebody could use
illicitly to hurt people.
But at least and that's why
I used the nuclear physics example.
The program should want to out itself.
Yeah.
It's like, yeah, protect
what could be weaponized. Yeah.
But generally allow it
to be studied openly.
But there's absolutely
like no cogent plan that
I'm aware of to do so.
Congressman, do you
think that these reverse engineering
programs have made any progress
or do you think. Yeah, I do.
I just don't think they
they're going to scratch-
because if they did
we wouldn't- we would own the skies
if they had it.
Isn't it
in their best interest
to just get immunity for themselves
and try to refresh the talent pool
if these people are you know, it's
they're all old and it's
completely compartmentalized
and they haven't made you know,
and the Wilson memo.
They’re completely arrogant.
They're arrogant. Blatantly arrogant.
They're above the laws
and they're above-
why aren’t
they releasing the Kennedy files?
Nobodies allowed in sixty years,
but every president-
you think there’s a connection
between that and this?
I heard,
I've heard
that I would hate to speculate.
I’m more just- I want it to surface.
Just give me the start.
Gotcha. Thank you.
We must guard
against the acquisition
of unwarranted influence,
whether sought or unsought,
by the military industrial complex.
I have no idea
if JFK’s death
had anything to do with UFOs.
But there is a letter
that was supposedly declassified due
to a Freedom of Information
Act request in 2006.
It was from JFK
to the director of the CIA
at the time, John McCone. Its date?
November 12th, 1963, just ten days
before the president's assassination.
In the letter, JFK
is asking for the full data
on unknowns or UFOs
so we can coordinate more tightly
with Russians in space.
And they don't mistake
these UFOs as acts
of American aggression
or reconnaissance.
I've called the guy
who used the Freedom of Information
Act to retrieve this document
like five times now,
and he's not playing ball.
So I have no idea
if this document is real.
And an anonymous archivist
that handles
a lot of JFK's letters
say that there are some anomalies
in the letter that make him skeptical.
So who knows?
But I will say
this is a very weird non-sequitur
from former CIA Director
Mike Pompeo, when asked why
the nearly 5000
JFK files
still won't be released to this day.
Why did you fight to keep
the JFK files secret?
These don't hold the dark secrets
that everybody wants
to just hold up as the boogeyman.
I saw the UFO files, too.
We've got bigger problems.
What do you say to the people who say
this is a psyop
and they just want
black budget funding?
So the information might be right,
but they just want to be able
to have increased surveillance
in the skies and in space or whatever.
Yeah,
that comes up
I think with some people
that have like an issue with it
where you had to remember
like national security threat
is the way to get Congress
alerted and engaged.
That is like the operative word
that Congress responds to.
The narrative
that this could be a threat.
Because, look, to be honest with you,
I think this stuff's been going on
for thousands of years.
And so it does frustrate me
a little bit when it's like,
you know,
we need to be able to
shoot these things down.
It's like,
I don't think they’re really a,
you know,
an immediate existential threat
as my- as my strong bias.
It might not be
the smartest idea to try to fire back
when they're not firing at you.
They'll take you out
real quick
if they can fly faster than light
and do all the stuff they're doing.
So yeah, it's probably not a good idea.
We probably shouldn't
attack the zookeeper.
Yeah, exactly.
Don’t attack the zookeeper.
Like, that's probably not a good idea.
Stick to the facts,
write it down and don't
speculate what you think it is
because it will sway your decision.
The thing that frustrated me
about the hearing was,
look, I think Ryan Graves is awesome.
And I think as is commander,
David Fravor.
I think they're showing
a lot of courage.
But it felt like their simple take away
is we need more sensors
and we need a better collection process
and a more standard taxonomy,
all of which are very important.
But it's this kind of lazy data story
that I think comes from Silicon Valley,
where it's like
if we just get
a bigger database of the UFOs,
a machine
learning classifier
will somehow spit out the answer
as to what they are.
Yeah,
the only thing you're going
to get from external observation,
at least through the lens
I look through, right.
You're going to get what they call
activity based intelligence, ABI.
You'll figure out where
the true hotspots are,
but it's not the end all, be all.
If you have- you're trying
to find a needle in a haystack,
you don't want to add to the haystack.
And I think we are overindexed
on- Yeah, saturated with data.
Oversaturated with data in some ways,
and it could be probably
better standardized.
So I'll give them that.
But we're under indexed on theory,
and to my mind,
we have one
pretty strong theoretician
and Jacques Vallee.
Who really, if you read
like The Invisible College,
which he wrote in 1975,
that is the tip of the spear now,
in terms of theory on UFOs,
which is wild to me.
Jacques Vallee
might be the most preeminent
UFO researcher in the world.
In fact,
he was Steven Spielberg's inspiration
for the eccentric French
scientist played by Francois Truffaut
in Close Encounters of the Third Kind.
Yeah,
nobody's really replaced him
at that level.
And especially hypotheses
that are even a little more testable.
But what the average person
might not know about Jacques
is that he's obsessed with time travel.
In fact,
on the set of Close Encounters,
he got into an argument
with Steven Spielberg.
And we had a long discussion
about what UFOs could be.
And of course, for him,
the main point of of
the movie was entertainment,
and it was appropriate for the UFOs
to be extraterrestrial visitors.
Jacques wanted the UFOs
and the aliens in the movie
to be represented in a more nuanced way
and actually linked with time travel,
not just space travel.
I think that
the extraterrestrial hypothesis
is actually more farfetched.
I think the idea
that another species
would evolutionarily converge
to be bipedal,
to have kind of the symmetric,
you know, bipedal- bilateral symmetry.
Yeah.
Because if we look at like
the Aeriel School event,
you know,
if we believe the 100 schoolchildren
that saw bipedal,
you know, hominid looking kind of NHI.
That seems
pretty rare to
have the same development
where they're gonna -
it's either extraterrestrial,
and we're seeing bioengineered beings
that look
similar to us
for ease of communication
and acceptance maybe?
And that is like almost like an avatar
for the intelligence behind,
you know, the
the ghost behind the machine
or whatever.
That they were engineered specifically
to look like that
and it wasn't natural.
Jacques' heir
in the UFO theory
world is a guy named Mike Masters.
A biological anthropologist
at Montana Tech University,
who believes that
aliens are basically
just humans from the future,
who figured out time
travel and are going back in
time to visit us in the present.
We see them less often
because we're just one small blip
on their geographic map of time.
I like this sort of,
you know, beings from the future
hypothesis for a few reasons.
So there's actually a concept
in evolutionary biology called neoteny,
where your distant offspring
looks like your kids currently.
And if you think about
a lot of these sort of close
encounters of the third kind,
they often are described
as, you know,
the beings are
sort of childlike in nature.
If you think about
how we're actually evolving
as a species,
you know,
our bodies are becoming
somewhat vestigial.
You know,
we have an abundant amount of resources
that are being distributed to us.
We don't need them-
our morphologies are gonna change
-just wither away
little bit,
and then our brains are becoming
actually more important.
Decision making
is becoming more important.
If we have any sort
of latent intuitive powers
that's going to be more important.
And these things are supposedly
a little more telepathic.
Their eyes are sort of slits.
You're going to have more screen time
going forward.
And so it does feel like that's
kind of the way that we're evolving.
Aliens are weirdly noninterventionist.
In many of the abductions
that get reported, it's
almost like
they have a prime directive to not say
or do too much.
In fact, in many cases
Mike Masters studied,
the abductees had to sanitize
themselves, shower
or do chemical rinses before
boarding the alien craft.
This would make sense as time
travel involves
all sorts of issues
like the grandfather paradox.
You can't go back in time
and kill your own grandfather,
otherwise
how would you exist in the present?
Any little thing you do in the past
might dramatically change
timelines or trajectories
in a way that breaks the present.
So maybe this alien
non-interventionism points
further towards the time travel theory.
Many abductees also report lost time.
Again,
this might be explained by abductions
occurring in another
temporal dimension.
Time’s crazy
because you know,
it's defined at some levels
as the Planck length, right.
It’s the time it takes of
like a photon of light to cross
and you know,
and you know, Planck literally
after discovering the Planck length
thought that that would be
the best way to communicate with aliens
because it's that literally
the shortest length.
It's like, yeah, yeah it's like-
he would joke about that. So yeah.
And it's all relative, right?
It's you know
based on your reference frames,
especially if your near
a gravitational source.
You know,
general relativity
teaches us that the clocks
either speed up or slow down,
you know, based on where they’re near
a gravitational source or not,
you know, 1 over R squared
over distance, you know,
and it comes off
and we've proven
that having cesium
clocks on airplanes in the seventies,
we actually showed
atomic clock differences
based on the force of gravity.
Yeah, time is really not a constant
the way we conceptualize
time, it's not constant at all.
And yet it's
the felt sense of it is constant,
maybe true
ontological reality
time is way trippier than we realize.
And maybe that
speaks to this sort of alien thing,
especially because people seem
to see crafts and aliens
when they're in specific kind
of heightened states of consciousness.
And so maybe time doesn't work
quite the way we think it is.
But in ordinary consciousness,
we sort of snap it into this
kind of linear
classical epistemology
that we experience.
Yeah, that's what
I was trying to espouse upon
when I mentioned
the holographic principle.
If you want to imagine
a 3D objects such as yourself
casting a shadow onto a 2D surface,
that's the holographic principle.
So you can be projected, quasi
projected from higher dimensional space
to lower dimensional.
It’s a scientific trope
that you can actually cross.
Originally,
the holographic principle
was created to explain
how information is encoded
on an event horizon in a black hole.
But like,
maybe that's what we're seeing
is we're seeing higher
dimensional stuff
casting shadow into our space,
just like how we cast a shadow
on a two dimensional surface,
which is like the sidewalk right?
Well, if you were on flat
land, you would have no idea
that this like, crazy 3D monster was,
you know, out there.
But all you're seeing is the shadow.
And it's called quasi projection.
And then maybe some of the
UAPs are not even- they're here.
But they're not actually
from out there.
I cannot show you a tesseract
because I
and you
are trapped in three dimensions.
But what I can show
you is the shadow in three dimensions
of a four dimensional hypercube
or tesseract.
This is it.
Like if it exists outside of 4D
time space or whatever.
Say this is, you know,
you have a 2D universe
and this is a 3D object.
If it intersects, you're
just going to see a sliver of it.
So you'll just see a disk.
So that would make sense,
I think in two ways.
One is that a lot of people
that seem to see crafts
and sometimes quote unquote
go inside of them,
the inside is bigger than the outside.
So Jacques Vallee describes
a woman in San Jose seeing this,
you know, flying saucer.
She walks in, she's in a movie theater
all of a sudden.
It was when
one case in good old San Jose,
a woman had seen something
over her house. It was a big disk.
Then I say, well,
when you went inside, you said,
you know,
there was
this being
and the being took you on a staircase.
I say, where did the staircase go?
Well,
the staircase went up
the side of this big round room.
I say how would you compare it?
Well, like a
like a movie house, you know,
like an amphitheater.
And I said,
that's bigger than your house.
Why is the inside
bigger than the outside?
And so this is a constant
sort of again,
if we're looking for patterns
and that's like a good way
to kind of theorize,
you know, that that would make sense.
If it's this shadow casting.
And that, that
almost sounds like
a physical translation
from lower to a higher
dimensional space.
That seems to be what's going there.
And I don't
I don't know
if we have a good
framework on how to smoothly yeah,
do something like that.
I don't even know.
I think
if anyone would know
about aliens on Earth,
it would probably be me.
He’s hopping on the alien bandwagon
as of the last two days, by the way.
Well he did
and then he goes,
Somebody should win
psy op of the year award or something.
So I don't know what it's like.
What do you think, man?
What's your what's your take?
He was just riding the fear
with the first tweet of like,
I'm not going to say they're aliens,
but like,
yeah, yeah, I'm not sure
what's going on with him.
I think he's probably a little pissed
because he's using chemical propulsion.
Yeah, exactly.
Combustion based propulsion.
We need the Howard
Hughes of our generation
to get access to the good stuff.
I've always
found it
fascinating that America's
real life Iron Man,
its most impressive
industrialist,
seems to be so sure of the fact
that we're in a simulation.
The odds that we're in base
reality is one in billions
but doesn't like entertaining
any possible sightings of aliens.
If we're in a simulation,
why aren’t you doing
any speculating as to who simulated us?
I mean,
if they show up, I'm like, great,
okay, now this is new information.
The conventional story,
especially after
the Copernican revolution, is
that the Earth is a lucky accident
that allows for life.
You do have
sort of weird aspects of reality,
like the anthropic principle,
like the idea of Planck's
constant was slightly different.
Hydrogen bonded with oxygen
in a different way
that didn't form these perfect
crystal structures, ice
wouldn't float above water.
Usually solids
sink below liquids,
and we wouldn't have a habitable earth.
And so you have all these
sort of things in physics
that if they were slightly different,
we wouldn't
have this sort of Goldilocks
perfect habitable zone.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, Earth's like very finely
tuned, right?
The temperature
gradient is just enough.
Is that a coincidence or did
aliens set this up? I don't know.
You can even think
of, like, Heisenberg’s
uncertainty principle
where you can't measure
position and momentum at the same time
as like
a computational caching function.
Oh, interesting.
You can’t compute everything- Yeah.
Your RAM’s not that good.
And maybe if we are in a simulation,
our perceptive capabilities
were artificially limited
by the simulators.
We only see between 400 and 700
hundred nanometers
of the electromagnetic wave spectrum.
We only hear certain frequencies.
That's why dog
whistles are inaudible to humans.
If we really wanted to create safe,
artificial general intelligence,
we might initially experiment
with artificial life
so limited in its perception
that it doesn't even know we exist.
So it definitely can't hurt us.
Forward
looking infrared caught the famous
tic tac video in 2004.
What if we had infrared sensors,
or for that matter, gravity
wave detectors in our pockets?
How many more sightings would we have?
That explains
why UFOs are disproportionately
picked up by military bases.
It's the robust multi-sensory detection
that you find on those bases
that makes all the difference.
There is
no understanding of alien visits
that has them only visit restricted
Navy airspace
to be picked up by pilots.
It’s an observer and collection
bias issue,
where you have all the eyeballs
and all the sensors in those areas.
Sure, that's a good point.
You know,
if you were to do an activity
based intelligence
across the globe,
if we actually can have an open
and honest kind of collection system.
Yeah.
I think we'd probably see
some hot spots
that don't even make any sense.
You know I don’t like throwing shade,
but like Neil deGrasse Tyson, right?
Oh, yeah, He's made up his mind.
I've read his tweets and I'm like,
Dude, you have a Ph.D. in physics?
Where's your curiosity?
I can't even believe.
There's no evidence
that would convince
an authentic skeptic.
I have credentials too
and I'm happy to go
toe to toe with you.
Yeah. If he wants to debate me, I'd be.
I'd be fine with that.
You know, when I started
studying physics in college,
and I became an intel guy,
and I got briefed a lot of programs.
I figured, oh,
I would know if it's a thing.
And I kind of ascribe to the,
you know, the Enrico Fermi thing where,
you know,
wouldn't it be obvious, wouldn’t
they just be flying
and and they wouldn't care
and they would just land and say hello?
But that's like an overly simplistic
thought, you know- humanistic too.
Very humanistic.
You're
assuming that they have
the same kind of intent as us.
You, you assume they operate
in the electromagnetic spectrum
that we can observe normally.
And then also
you're assuming that they would want
this kind of open, obvious
kind of interaction
and they're not doing cover
concealment techniques.
Where they're,
you know,
obfuscating their activity
because maybe they're, you know,
observing us for some purpose.
Or what if they're von Neumann
probes, right.
Do you guys know von Neumann probes?
No. Von Neumann replicators.
Well, just like self-replicating tech
that if that's disposable in nature,
if you're trying to send something out
simple and engineered
to explore the cosmos.
And there's always a question of like
what was the first
self-replicating organism?
I think the big mystery is
how does chemistry turn into biology?
And we have this
these people that say, Oh,
it was just
this primordial soup,
and you had all these chemicals
kind of like floating around
and they've done experiments like this
and never been able to recreate life
through those experiments.
And it's a really open question,
like how did life form?
And I think it's
probably much more trippy
and interesting than like
just a chemical soup,
just the chemicals happen
to bond in a certain way.
It's a happy accident.
And Crick's view was
that DNA could not have emerged
accidentally
from the primeval
soup on this planet
in just 100 million years.
It needed much longer to-
he still bought into the primeval
soup idea, but not on this planet. Yes.
What he came down to was that
there must have been some other planet
somewhere else
where a primeval soup had existed
and there had been enough time
for DNA to emerge
from the accidental bumping
together of molecules.
That's, by the way,
something I'm a bit
skeptical of anywhere.
There's actually a French
kind of evolutionary
theorist and philosopher named
Henri Bergson.
He thought the sun was
somehow essential to evolution.
If you think about it,
that makes sense. Mutations.
You need mutation.
You need genetic mutations
for evolution to occur.
It’s a radiological
you know, it's
at least putting out ultraviolet,
you know. Totally.
Why are we worried about a Japanese
nuclear spill?
What happened at Fukushima
and Chernobyl?
You had an acceleration of
evolution due to radiation.
Maybe the sun is an
extremely sophisticated
nuclear fusion reactor
that powers the earth.
And the Earth's electromagnetic field
was simulated to support life.
Astronauts often have to take Schumann
resonance machines up
with them to space to mimic
the electromagnetic field of the earth.
Otherwise their bodies
often malfunction.
You know,
if you put
a frog embryo in a Faraday cage,
it does not develop normally.
And then if you can change
the cell gradient
of like a tadpole,
where you've severed the
the arm of the tadpole
to the cell gradients
of the head cells,
and you can grow
a, you know, a chimeric
two headed tadpole.
And so there's something around
kind of the electromagnetic field
that is orthogonal
and maybe even upstream of DNA
in terms of morphology.
Yeah, because they've done
an experiment too with
plant growth around
high powerful
wi-fi routers and that actually-
Oh yeah- They don't grow right.
It's like pretty- It’s
actually kind of concerning
I think about the wi-fi in my house.
I’m like, Oh man.
Am I like cooking myself
slowly or something?
What's the name of the llama?
Playboy. Playboy.
I think the name of the llama was Boy.
Over the past days,
you shared with us
that you were diagnosed
to be on the autism spectrum.
How has this served you in your life
and in your career,
and how has it hindered you?
Yeah, I mean, I didn't know, you know,
that I was autistic
until I was like in my early thirties.
So, I mean, it served me
well in the government
because I was super good at,
you know,
doing intel and like, you know.
Dave,
we want you to target this facility.
Okay.
You have six months,
figure out everything.
You know, and of course I do.
And it's, you know, that was very good.
But I think
especially if you're trying
to maintain relationships and stuff
and how to read people's emotions and
and how to show your own emotions
because, you know, autists,
especially if you're,
you know, deeper
in the spectrum when you get Asperger's
and that kind of stuff.
You don't know how to even
present your emotions
in a way to a partner or,
you know, spouse or whatever.
He would come home
and tell me
general stuff and I'd be like,
Yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah, there's probably aliens.
Like that makes sense.
Unfortunately, Dave
can't talk about the backlash he's
received from inside the government
because of an ongoing investigation,
but a good example of a pretty
despicable marginalization
attempt from the outside
was an article written a few weeks
after the hearing by The Intercept.
The article describes
Dave's hospitalization
back in 2018,
an episode of alcohol
consumption and suicidal ideation
that led to a 911 call.
But the article failed to mention
any of the factors
that led to this incident.
You know,
definitely experienced
some really nuts stuff.
Not only has Dave
been very open with us
and other media about his PTSD
from combat experience
and having a close friend die
while on duty.
I had a friend of mine that died
doing the same stuff
I was, you know, six months later
going to the same locations.
He's also discussed
all of the suffering
that's resulted from that experience
and the proactive techniques
he's used to heal from that trauma.
So like EMDR therapy,
HRV breath work, all that stuff.
I was not a believer,
but holy crap,
at least it worked for me.
And I highly recommend
anybody that has issues with that.
Maybe try some of that stuff
because it seems kind of
nontraditional, but
it was very valuable
critiquing the
substance of Dave's argument,
saying that they're high level
or second hand.
That's all within the public
and media’s right.
But this was a clear cheap shot.
A low blow.
And one that I suspect
was probably driven
by a political ulterior motive.
Concealing the truth.
People will
like send me memes, or like TikToks.
I'm like, yep, that's that's mine.
Have you in your time in the Navy,
have you ever seen something
that you couldn't
explain or something
that we have a cabin
up in the mountains
and our former neighbor,
he was so into seeing UFOs.
And he moved to Roswell, New Mexico
because he wanted to be close.
He claimed he did see something.
Another question
that I always get is like,
why is it always an American thing?
Like, why is it
why is this always happening
in America?
The phenomenon is global 100%
like I mean,
you look at Aeriel schools.
Russians have reported stuff.
The Chinese have what they call
the journal of UFO Research,
which is
a published periodical
in the People's Republic of China.
And you got to remember,
you know,
the CCP does not allow fringe beliefs
and, you know, it's
basically tacitly endorsed
and allowed to-
since I think the late nineties
I want to say.
Do you think the Three-Body Problem
kind of the dark forest
analogy of aliens
was maybe sort of a form of soft
disclosure from the Chinese government?
I mean, I don't know for sure,
but they've allowed this sci
fi series to be published
by this Chinese author,
that's like pretty trippy.
And I don't know,
maybe that's a way
for the Chinese government
to acclimatize the populace.
Do note in the South China
Morning post,
I want to say it was June 2021
and they had an article like,
Oh yeah, we have a UAP task force too.
We're using
AIML to look at UAP sightings,
and that's really been their own overt
messaging on UAP,
at least to an English
speaking kind of audience.
Oh, yeah, we understand
that's a problem.
We have a task force too.
Isn't what's happening in Ukraine
kind of an argument
against the practical application
of these technologies?
Because if either side wanted
to kind of definitively win,
and you had this kind of
faster than light travel thing.
Well you'd have to be willing to
reveal your ace in
the hole
tech, because once you use it,
then you burn it.
And then now everybody knows. Gotcha.
Perhaps this is a good time
to talk about the frame
of the public debate on UFOs,
which is frustratingly stupid
and simplistic.
It's frozen between a sensationalist,
indiscriminate belief
in everything and smug,
elitist dismissiveness.
The whole conversation is basically,
is this a psyop or is this real?
The answer is it's both.
Those two things aren't
mutually exclusive.
In fact,
if the phenomena is real,
there are more likely to be psyops
surrounding it.
And those psyops
are going to be more effective
if the phenomena is real.
And yeah,
if there are vehicles in the sky
running circles around
American state of the art fighter jets,
do you not think the government
would try to get in
front of that narrative,
and at times
use it for its own purposes?
We know the Air Force
tried to marginalize
UFOs with Blue Book, but later in 1979,
the Air Force
drove a man crazy
by playing up his belief in aliens.
Paul Bennewitz I'm
sure you're- are you familiar with him?
I've heard about it, yeah.
He, you know, saw
some strange craft activity
and didn't know what it was.
And Richard Doty, who is an Air Force
disinfo guy, was kind of assigned to
screw him up mentally.
So we know UFOs are part psyop.
That's old news.
The real question is,
is this only a psyop?
Because if it is, it cuts
against everything we know about
our pretty dysfunctional government.
It's basically the best
psyop of all time.
It runs across government agencies
that don't always get along.
Presidents on both sides of the aisle,
fighter pilots and radar operators
who adhere to a culture of humility.
And of course, hundreds of thousands,
if not millions of average civilians.
The null hypothesis
that this is purely
a psyop is almost harder to defend than
just admitting the existence
of non-human intelligence.
But you shouldn't blindly trust me
or Dave Grush for that matter.
Do your own research.
Talk about
I mean, you have
people like Steven Pinker who are like,
This is the best we've ever had it.
I think that's BS.
So maybe violence
is at an all time low,
but it's because we have nukes now.
So any war is
mutually assured destruction.
And so if
there's a world
beyond the material world
and that can somehow be accessed
or communicated
with in any possible way,
it might be a sort of a crazy
Hail Mary,
but you got to throw the Hail Mary now.
You can't run the ball.
Is there
something you would like to say
directly to someone- On the program?
Yeah, no, if you're on the program,
I understand empathetically, you know
the risks,
what you put yourself through.
We're trying to create a time
where we can get this out there,
recruit better people,
hopefully protect those
who want to go forward.
If you want to go forward,
there is a legal process
either through PPD 19,
if it's an intel thing-
there's other inspector general's.
You do have the right to go directly
to Congress.
And then, of course,
some of the senior leaders
that have
known about this stuff,
and I understand they were in positions
where they had to make decisions
just like anybody else,
and they're not the top of the pyramid.
I think the time is right to submit
maybe your final legacy
and to help out,
even though I know
there will be some admittance of,
you know, maybe decisions
you've made that you wish in the past
maybe you didn't make.
But I think it's time to move forward.
And I think we'll be stronger
as a as a nation and as a world.
I think it's going to enhance
national security,
enhance peer competition policing,
so that people aren't doing things
unethical and immoral.
If everything's in secret,
everybody can get away with things
that might be illegal
, unethical, immoral.
And hold our adversaries
accountable publicly,
if this is a thing that we acknowledge.
And once again,
nuclear physics, broadly studied.
Nuclear weapons development,
that's classified.
So that's and that's all I have to say.
It just said, just come on.
Do you think in some ways
UFOs are like a Rorschach test?
And the way I mean that is that,
you could use them as an auspice
to sort of clamp down
and create one world
government or something.
And create,
you know, extra surveillance
and say, you know, this
is this big threat.
And, you know,
we're not at the top of the food chain
and they're apex predators.
And, you know, we've to be careful.
Watch your step.
Or they can be incredibly libertarian
because it's like actually,
you know,
terrestrial governments
aren't as powerful
maybe as we thought that they were.
And, you know,
I think it could go in
either direction. Yeah.
Or it's just like
they're just simply waiting
until we like generally care
about that.
We've just like
we look at it we're like, huh
that's interesting.
And then we go about our day
and then we don't even integrate
the phenomenon into our lives
in terms of people's reaction to this.
Look, I'm angry about possible white
collar crime, especially,
you know, people
possibly being driven crazy
or to their death.
That's horrible. Yeah.
And then I also think on
some level,
people are too focused on government
kind of recrimination.
It is time for transparency.
Transparency. Transparency.
Transparency.
And not on the fact
that this is the nature of reality.
These things might make you
a biblical literalist.
Do you believe that
the phenomenon is the next
big great religion in the world?
Yeah, basically.
The phenomenon has probably already
influenced
all the other religions already,
so it's just
maybe we're looking at the source code.
Yeah.
If you're looking at the source code.
We're at the graphic user
interface level,
It's like IP header
and we're getting into
finally getting
into the information flow.
In her book,
American Cosmic, Diana Pasulka
makes the pretty convincing case
that many seemingly divine
contact experiences in the past
could have actually been what we now
call UFO experiences.
Just take the case of Saint
Francis of Assisi.
His close
confidant, Brother Leo, documents
the experience describing
and fury, creating atmospheric sparks,
a spinning disk,
telepathic communication
between Francis and the disc.
And then Francis is wounded
by rays of light.
Francis interprets these hand wounds
as the stigmata of Christ.
But Pasulka speculates
that maybe this was just radiation
damage from a UFO experience.
I was reasonably religious,
but nothing like crazy,
kind of average. Studied physics.
I became kind of agnostic.
I was like, Eh,
I don't know about this,
all this kind of woo
woo stuff
that the church espouses and stuff.
And then
oddly enough,
I've kind of come full circle
in some sense
where there is this higher sentience,
there seems to be,
I think
we're created beings in some manner,
whether it be some panspermia
from little G gods or big G gods.
I think about the people,
the journey I had
and the most random people
that I've known
that were placed in my life
like 14 years ago,
you know
shut the door in my office at NGA like,
Look dude.
And you know, they started telling me
all this stuff that I was
and they brought these,
like, crazy intel reports.
I guess I was kind of the right guy
that was chosen to do this thing,
I guess. But.
So yeah, I've come full circle
in my belief system.
for me it's inspiring
because it's like this idea
that it's just,
you know, eat, drink
and be merry or whatever.
You know, you just, you
you live, you pay taxes,
you work a job, and then you die.
That's meaning of life.
And just like the Vatican Observatory
saying, yeah,
we're like cool
with other sentient life
that shows God paints
a, you know, broad brush.
And that's pretty cool.
Catholic Church
is very accepting on that
and it just shows
God's providence and God's
creative powers
if there's actually other
interesting sentience besides us.
It would be it's like,
you know, what was it
a in the movie Contact.
It's a total waste of space
if it's just us, right?
It's like the famous line in the movie.
Carl Sagan was a great communicator,
probably one of the best. Yeah.
He also met a lot with Kit
Green towards the end of his career,
got very into UFOs.
Yeah.
You were telling me that
I didn’t even know that.
So you can count on Jesse
to tell you these weird facts.
Yeah.
I thought
I had a lot of useless knowledge,
and this guy’s like-
It's not useless, but it's
pretty
useless until now.
This is like the mega interview.
We’re covering
every potential trippy / esoteric
/ conspiratorial thing at once.
This justifies me
being paranoid in my room,
reading about weird shit
and being criticized by friends
and colleagues for years.
Yeah, this is like.
This is more
you educating me
than me saying anything for
right now.
So yeah, so it's kind of cool. Yeah.
Always learning something
when I'm talking to you.
And sometimes I'm
like hanging up the phone,
you call me and I'm like,
I don't know about this guy.
I think he's like, really going deep.
I think he’s losing his grip.
Yeah, but.
Oh my God.
That was a crazy hummingbird.
Maybe it’s a DARPA spy
cam or something.
Oh, man, that's a good sign bro.
That shows my mind versus yours.
It brings science and religion together
in a way that these two things
have been sort of
cleaved or bifurcated
since the Enlightenment.
This can possibly reconcile
those two things,
which would be absolutely amazing.
Where you can read the Bible
and you can say some of this stuff
could actually happen
in the context of aliens-
Like panspermia, creationism.
This might actually prove
certain religious texts
and what they've espoused with like,
you know, little G gods.
And at least for me,
you know,
spiritually, at least,
my belief
system, it’s
certainly opened my eyes to the,
you know,
the universe is not clockwork.
Everything we see in our
day to day life is not
everything that exists.
And if there's truly other
sentient intelligences,
I mean, it just inspires my curiosity.
Like I'd like to know
that their belief systems are
and how
maybe we'll find out that
that matches with ours
and it actually bolsters our, you know.
Maybe we can ascend to- per your video
in the Berkshires.
Yeah, well, you want to repeat it?
Yeah.
I mean,
the end result was was
that is the universe ignoring us?
Because we're not at their level yet.
We haven't reached that
height of awareness
as a society, as a people.
Is this an opportunity
for us to examine ourselves,
to figure out why
we have not been a part of this
bigger ecosystem?
Interesting friend visiting us.
Non-human intelligence,
non-human intelligence.
We have evidence
of non-human intelligence.
One of the most powerful
witness testimonies that I've seen
in all of the interviews
that I've consumed over the past
three years was
one of the girls
from the Ariel school case, when Dr.
John Mack was interviewing her.
And he's trying to understand
how the telepathy was working.
And then she goes out of nowhere:
I think in space there's no love,
but down here there is.
Well, that's like
the near death
experience is like Proof of Heaven,
by Eben Alexander, Medical Doctor.
Yeah.
He has a very interesting scientific
outlook of his near-death.
And that was like this, like
overarching, like, loving energy.
Something when he ascended to this-
it sounded like another,
like, dimensional plane, if you will.
He had basically
a fasciitis of the brain
where it was like, you know,
he was probably going to be brain dead
if he even survived.
But he miraculously came back
and he was totally fine.
But all this knowledge
and all the stuff he experienced.
That's a super common thing
in alien abduction experiences,
whether it's the Aeriel school
or Commander George
Hoover of the Navy
actually talked about this.
Aliens often come down,
they say,
you don't know how powerful you are.
You don't know how amazing and powerful
you are.
And in a lot of mystery rituals, like,
you know,
Eleusinian mystery rituals and others,
you experience sort of noesis.
Or it's often accompanied
by a kind of a near-death experience
or something.
But you experience knowledge
of your primordial soul
and you get this sort of loving state,
and then you come back down
and there is this sort of à la
Jesus translation function issue.
Where, you know,
he was known to speak in riddles
and mysteries.
There was a great book
actually called Flatland by
Sir Edwin Abbott.
That’s super classic, yeah.
In the late 19th century,
where it's like
if you were a 3D person
speaking to a people in Flatland
on a 2D plane.
Or, you know, Plato's cave.
Like you see the light, you come down,
you can't really tell people
and then you get persecuted.
Well, yeah,
he said he had this knowledge.
He understood it
when he was in that plane.
But when he came back
and was trying to verbalize it
and write it down,
he could not find the human words
to translate it.
It's like almost like our
our symbol rate is too slow
to communicate
the information effectively.
We're living in a
very interesting time.
Yeah, I'm excited to see where it goes.
And you're
playing a massive part in it,
so I appreciate everything.
Your service
just on a fundamental level,
you know,
and you're a real example
of like a modern Mr.
Smith Goes to Washington
and you're not doing it in this sort of
totally reckless
wrecking ball sort of way.
You’re going
through the proper processes
and doing things legally.
But also you have agency
and you're doing it
strategically time after time again.
People just get like
neutered when they're in government
and you are doing a big thing
so that it's
cool for young people to see.
Thank you Dave.
Thank you for everything, man.
we talked about a lot of shit.
Ladies and
gentlemen, Neil Armstrong.
Today we have with us
a group of students
among America's best.
There are great ideas, undiscovered.
Breakthroughs available
to those who can remove one of
truth's protective layers.